The old way of scaling LinkedIn ads was
hiring more performance marketers. The
new way is building human in the loop
systems that make decisions for you.
Today, I'm going to walk you through the
exact LinkedIn automation workflows that
we use inside of our ad agency to scale
results without burning out our team. If
you're new to the channel, I'm Sylvia
Perez. I'm the founder of Ad Conversion.
We teach 9,000 plus B2B marketers how to
master ads and we manage over $3 million
a month in ad spend for top B2B SAS
brands. The platform we used to automate
our LinkedIn ads optimization is Sammy.
We actually built Sammy out of
desperation because we needed a more
scalable way to scale our team's
bandwidth and clients results. You can
get started with Sammy for free so you
can put everything we're talking about
in this video into practice. Okay, so
the first automation that we love and
always use for LinkedIn ads is called
budget protection. So budget protection,
what this is going to do, it's going to
notify us once 80% of our budget has
been spent. And then it's going to pause
all our campaigns once we reach our
budget for the month. So I'm going to go
and click on this. I'm going to select
LinkedIn. I'm going to create this. And
just to show you what this looks like is
it's a two-step workflow. And inside of
this automation, the first step is to
notify us once 80% of our budget has
been spent. And then in the second step,
it's going to pause all our campaigns
once we reach the budget for the month.
And then it's going to loop back again
the next month. And it's going to go
again and again every month until I turn
this off where I modify the workflow. So
all I got to do is I just have to come
here, click modify on step number one. I
need to come here, choose my customer
account. Because I integrated LinkedIn
with Sammy, I can see all of my
customers here that I can choose from.
Now I have the scope level of account.
I'm going to set it to notify me. And
Sammy is gonna check every single hour
my ad spend against my goal to notify me
once I reach 80%. And you can fully
customize this. So like this is a a
standard workflow and an example
template. But for example, like if I
want to get notified once I reach 50%, I
can switch this to 50% and then I can
just go ahead and add in my budget. So,
for example, if I had a $10,000 budget
in this hypothetical scenario, it'll
notify me once 50% of my budget has been
spent. And I can go ahead and save that.
And then, because Sammy is integrated
with Slack, this is where it gets even
more fun because I can enable Slack
notifications. And then here on my Slack
notification, Sammy will send me this
message to whatever channel that I want
to be notified in. So, for example, I
can go ahead and choose specific
channels in my Slack workspace. So, I'll
choose this one. And I can fully
customize the message. So if you want
to, you know, tweak it as you see fit,
add in variables to push in different
sorts of information. You can do all of
that here. I'm actually going to just
modify this to say 50%. And I'm going to
go and save this. Now the second step is
it's going to pause all my campaigns
once I reach my target. So all I got to
do is click modify. And here and when we
modify the rule, I just need to update
this for my monthly budget. So in my
case, let's say I have $10,000 a month.
I'll go and switch that. And that's it.
It's going to go ahead and pause all my
campaigns once I exceed $10,000. Now,
what we like to do and what we tell our
team members in the agency is set this
at like about 98% of your target. So,
instead of it being $10,000, I might do
$9,800. And this will just make sure
that there's no chance of me
overspending because in this case, the
rule is going to run every single hour.
So from when the rule checks and the
hour and once it checks again, that's a
60-minute window for a margin of
overspend or a margin of error. So just
to be safe by putting it a bit lower,
it'll make sure that you don't go over.
You can also be a bit more aggressive,
maybe by say $9,900,
that's fine, or $9,950.
But if you really want to make sure you
don't overspend, just set it a little
bit lower so you don't give it that
opportunity. And that's it. I can enable
Slack notifications here as well. It'll
let me know once I reach my monthly
budget. And again, I'll just choose my
channels that I want to get notified.
I'll save this and I'll just go ahead
and publish this. And this is the first
automation that we absolutely love and
always use to scale our LinkedIn ads.
The second automation that we love for
LinkedIn ads is ad scheduling. So,
LinkedIn is expensive and if you're
dealing with smaller budgets,
especially, we find ad scheduling to be
really powerful to be able to
consolidate your budget to cover more of
the prime hours and your best performing
days versus spreading yourself out 7
days a week and 24 hours a day. So, the
way that looks like is here in Sammy,
I'm going to use this ad scheduling
template to build this really easily.
I'm going to go and select LinkedIn.
Click create. And here in this ad
scheduling workflow, I've got two steps
here for this automation as well. The
first step, it's going to pause my
campaigns once I reach the end of the
day. And then in the second step, it's
going to enable my campaigns at the
morning of the next day. And then it's
going to loop again every single day
until I pause this workflow. So all I
got to do is I got to modify the first
step of this automation. And I need to
choose my customer account. And I have
to change my time based on how I want to
set up this ad schedule. So, for
instance, right now we have it set to
run seven days a week and I can choose
campaigns or campaign groups, whatever
it is that I want to pause. So, for
example, I'm going to just select
campaigns and I'm going to go and select
all my campaigns for the sake of
simplicity, but of course, I can filter
this. I'm going to click save. And now
here, what I need to do is I need to
adjust my schedule. So, right now, I
have a an ad schedule set up 7 days a
week. Maybe I only want to run my ads
Monday through Friday. So what that
looks like is I would unselect Sunday
and Saturday and only keep Monday
through Friday enabled. And then here
what I need to do is I need to decide
what is the end of the day for me. So by
default I have this set this 8:00 p.m.
UTC time. So what I would recommend that
you do is you take your time zone and
you compare it against UTC time because
that's what Sammi is leveraging and also
that's what your ad account is going off
of. And basically using UTC time, you
can choose the end of the day for you.
So in my case, I've got 8:00 p.m. UTC
and that's what I want. But for you,
maybe that's 6 p.m., you know, maybe
that's 12:00 p.m. I don't know,
depending on your time zone where you're
going after. You might have a different
end of day. So I'm going to leave 8:00
p.m., but I could switch this as I
needed to. The next thing is the rule.
So, it's going to just look at any of
your ads or I should say any of your
campaigns in this example that have
impressions greater than zero will be
eligible in this case to get shut off
and it's going to run once a day. Next,
I can enable Slack notifications. This
is awesome just to keep me in the loop
that this is actually happening and my
my ad schedule is running properly. So,
I can just leave this as is and it's
going to say campaigns have been paused
for the night shift and it'll just give
me a heads up that this is happening
every single day. And again, same thing.
I can choose my Slack channel. I can get
notified in it and we're off to the
race. I can also switch this too. So,
for example, like maybe I don't want to
pause my campaigns. You could do a
budget rule and then instead you can set
a negative budget of like minus 90% and
then Sammy would drop your budget by 90%
instead of completely pausing the
campaigns. In our experience with
LinkedIn, we found it to be pretty
dependable where pausing and enabling
doesn't disrupt the performance too much
compared to some other platforms like
Meta that those types of changes can be
a bit more aggressive. So, I'm going to
go and leave all that. I'm going to save
it. And then now on the second step, I'd
modify this. I would come here now and I
would just adjust my values. So, in this
case, we're going to run it Monday
through Friday, 8 a.m. Okay, cool. I
have it based at 8 8 a.m. UTC, but I
would just adjust this based on my time
zone and what I want. Enable
notifications, choose my Slack channel,
and that's it. I've got this awesome
workflow in place to add schedule. And
this is really powerful, especially if
you're dealing with smaller budgets. So,
for instance, like if I'm running 7 days
a week, if I go from 7 days to 5 days a
week, I've just consolidated my budget
where now I've increased the average
daily budget by 50%. If you go from
spending, you know, 24 hours a day to
just 8 hours a day, you can increase
that daily budget by 200%. So, you can
really just increase and constrain the
variables so that you have more impact
over the times and the hours in which
you serve. Now, this will not force
LinkedIn to serve your budget equally
per hour. You can't control that,
unfortunately. But at least with ad
scheduling, you can set guard rails to
the best of your ability to try to cover
the most optimal periods for you and
your business. Just wanted to take a
quick second and say if you're loving
this video, you're going to absolutely
love our free courses over at
adconversion.com.
You can sign up for free and you can get
access to our Google Ads, Reddit ads,
LinkedIn ads courses. They're all here.
You'll get access to our existing
courses and future ones once you sign
up. If you don't believe us, I get it.
It sounds too good to be true. Just
check out our wall of love and you can
see that people have landed jobs.
They've started agencies and the
material we've created really helped
them. And if you're wondering like why
we're doing this, we're trying to create
the go-to place in the world to master
B2B ads so that when somebody is trying
to learn, they have a place they can go
and learn from qualified people and not
get ripped off in the process. The third
automation we love for LinkedIn ads is
called magic bidding. So in LinkedIn,
it's not uncommon to use manual bidding
because you can set floor bids and then
gradually raise your bids over time to
find the optimal bid amount comparing
reach versus cost. The only downside
with that approach is it's super manual
and it's very timeconuming to find that
optimal bid. So this is where automation
can really help. So using the magic
bidding SAM template, I'm going to go
and create this. And the way this
automation works is it will basically
automatically increase my bids for my
best performing LinkedIn campaigns. So,
I'm going to go and modify this. And
just like every rule, we'll create our
choose our customer and we'll choose our
campaigns. So, I just really want to
focus on this piece here and the rule.
So, you have context. So, here I can
choose my bidding variable and I can
also set a bid cap. So, for for example,
the the least I want to bid on this is
$3 and the max I want to bid on this
campaign is $30. So, what this bidding
cap will do is it'll protect you. So
it'll it'll protect you from going too
low and vice versa it'll protect you
from going too high. And what I could do
if I wanted to fully automate increasing
and decreasing bids using Sammy is I
would create two different workflows or
two different SAMs. One I would create
around increasing my bids and then I
create a new one around decreasing my
bids. So for the increasing my bids,
what I would do is I would choose my
campaigns and then I would adjust my
bidding variable. So, in this case, what
it's doing is it's going to increase my
bids by 10% and never exceed $30. And
it's only going to increase my bids once
per day based on the data and the
performance of this month. And the rule
is if my manual bid is 90% of my average
cost per click, it's going to increase
the bid. That basically means if your
average cost per click is higher than
your manual bid, that probably means
your manual bid is too low and you can
increase it. Now, if I wanted to get
more picky with the rule, for example,
like maybe I have campaigns that I can
increase the bids on, but they're not
performing very well. This is where you
can add on to the rule and you can say
you like for example, maybe I have a
cost per conversion goal. I could say,
and my cost per conversion is less than
$1,000, assuming that was my goal. So,
what this is doing again is looking at
my manual bids, the manual bids that are
lower than my average cost per click. We
can increase the bids because if the
manual bid is lower than the average,
then that's a really good sign that your
your bid is too small. We'll increase
the bids by 10% in this case, never
exceeding $30, and it'll run once per
day. So now if I wanted to do this
workflow but for the opposite I could
just switch the variable here from a
positive number to a negative and maybe
what I would do is the exact opposite.
So I would say in this case if my cost
per conversion is less than a th000 I
want to increase the bids because
they're doing really well and then vice
versa if they're doing bad I'd say if my
cost per conversion is greater than a
th000 I want to reduce the bids even
further as an example. So using this
magic bidding automation, we're able to
take this winning strategy of floor to
ceiling bidding where we're dropping the
floor bid and then we're raising to the
ceiling over time, but just automate it
so we don't have to spend so much time
doing this manually. The fourth
automation that we love to use is called
ongoing maintenance. The maintenance
phase is arguably the most time
consuming from an optimization
standpoint and this is where automation
is really powerful. So, we're going to
use this template called ongoing
maintenance. And this is going to pause
our campaigns or ads that just have
stopped working over time. So, I'm going
to go and click on that. I'm going to
choose LinkedIn. I'm going to create
this. It's a really simple workflow.
It's just one step. It's pausing and
then it's running on a loop. So, I'm
going to go ahead and modify my rule
here. And let's go ahead and choose my
customer account. And as a default,
because I'm using a template, it's pause
ads with high cost per conversion for
the rule name. You can completely modify
this. We're going to have to go now and
choose our campaigns, but we could have
this be at the campaign level, the
campaign group level. We can adjust
this. I actually really like to have
this at the ad level because at the ad
level, this is where a lot of the
pausing, enabling, and the the velocity
of optimization really needs to happen.
And the ad level will impact the
campaign level performance. And
generally speaking, when you're
optimizing, you don't want to just react
based on the campaign level performance
because the campaign level performance
kind of misleads because when you drill
into the campaign, you go down to the ad
level. That's where you really get a
good sense of does this campaign have
legs or not, right? Is there opportunity
to scale or not? Because, for example,
my overall campaign might have a bad CPA
of, let's say, $1,000, but when I drill
into the ad level, I might have certain
ads that are driving a CPA much lower
than a thousand. But because I have
other ads that are bad and they haven't
been paused yet, which is why this
automation is so important, it's
dragging down and increasing the overall
CP of the campaign. So, we'll leave the
ads here for the sake of demonstration.
I would just go now and choose the
campaigns that I want to apply this to.
For the sake of simplicity, I'm just
going to select all of my campaigns in
this account here. I'm going to leave
the task as pause. If for whatever
reason I am fearful and I don't want
Sammy to just go ahead and start pausing
all of my ads, maybe I don't have new
creatives ready because I don't have
good creative operations yet. Uh what
you can do is you can click this button
and what it's going to do is it's going
to select manual approval. So when you
get notified in Slack, you'll see an
alert like this with a button that says
approve. You have to click on it. It's
going to direct you into Sammy's log
page and then you have to manually
approve the ad for final blessing. So
you do have even if it's just the
ability of getting notified and then
taking the final action is still super
valuable because unfortunately most
people are just blowing up their budgets
because they're just not checking their
ads fast enough, right? Cuz they're
busy, you guys got different things to
do and this automation runs every hour
on the hour in the background. So while
you're on client calls, while you're
doing, you know, the five million jobs
that you have, this is taking care of
your ads. So from here, what we're going
to do is we're going to adjust the time
frame and the rules. By default, we have
it set based on the last 90 days, but
you can adjust this as you see fit.
Personally, I like 90 days because and
make sure that I'm looking over a long
enough time horizon where I'm giving the
ad in this case the benefit of the
doubt, right? Where if I was only
looking at it like a 14-day period,
might be a bit too soon. So 90 days is
nice because if it's not performing over
a 90-day period, then it's a pretty good
chance that this ad has stopped
performing for us. And then here, what
we're going to do is we're going to just
modify our rule. As a default, I'm using
cost per conversion. So for me, maybe
it's cost per conversion greater than
a,000. If my ad has a cost per
conversion greater than a,000, that's
too expensive. I don't want that and I
want this ad to get shut off. You can
completely customize the rule. Well, I'm
using cost per conversion as the sake of
demonstration, but for example, maybe
you cared about meetings booked or
opportunities, whatever conversion
action you care about in your account
because as long as the conversion set up
in your ad account, Sammy is pulling it
and you can use that. So, for instance,
like maybe for me it's cost greater than
a,000
and cuz I have conversion actions from
HubSpot, MQL is less than one as an
example. So if it's cost greater than a
thousand, MQL is less than one, I don't
want it, right? That means it's it's
burning my money. I'm spending more than
a thousand bucks and I'm not generating
MQLs. It's no good. So you can
completely customize it as you see fit.
And then from here, what I'll do is I'll
just enable Slack notifications. So when
the ad gets flagged, I'm notified. And
if I have manual approval, I'll give
final say to pause the ads. Or if I
don't have manual approval, it'll get
shut off. And just using this CPA
automation, like you can cut 15 to 30%
of wasted ad spend. It is dramatic how
much ad spend we waste because we're
just not fast enough to catch ads that
are underperforming. And if you're
looking at me and you're watching this
video, you're like, Sylvia, I don't
really have a number in mind. That's a
bigger problem that speaks to you don't
have your logic defined yet of like what
success or failure looks like for your
ads. So, you need to figure that out
because whether you use automation or
not, there should be logic guiding your
decisions on increasing, decreasing,
pausing, scaling, etc. I hope this video
was valuable. Be sure to give this video
a thumbs up. Really helps us grow our
reach as a small channel. And subscribe
so you can be notified of future videos.
When you're ready, come check us out at
adconversion.com and join our community
of 9,000 plus video marketers and master
ads with our free courses. I'll see you
in the next one.